
# Miguel-Angel Gonzalez's Portfolio

This is my home page! My name is Miguel-Angel Gonzalez. I am a student at CSUF and my major is computer science. I plan to graduate in 2029.

## Favorite CPSC 120L Labs

* Lab 2, part 1

    This was my favorite lab to work on because we used strings to create variables that would initialize to their respective commands for the user to enter by using std::cout for the user input and std::cin for the user output. Firstly, I had to learn how to use strings for user inputs and the user outputs to work. Then, the program would prompt the user to enter a singular noun, a plural noun, and a present-tense verb, and the program generated a madlib about computers and their advantages. Finally, the program would include line wrapping to take long lines and wrap the lines for the operators in the code to make the lines indented and aligned together. Once I figured out how to use user inputs and user outputs for the user to input a singular noun, a plural noun, and a present-tense verb, it was a challenge for the program to take the different types of nouns from the user and generate a madlib that the user can read and observe the different types of nouns that were used to change the madlib sentences.

* Lab 7, part 1

    This was my second favorite lab to work on because part 1 taught me how to write a program that determines whether street parking is allowed or not allowed, according to posted signs. I have been interested to learn how parking on streets works during each week from 12 AM through 11 PM, especially within each minute during each hour. My program takes a street name along with each day of the week, the input hour, and the input minute to use a series of strings, std::stoi, command_line, and if statements for determining a street, day, hour, and minute that can be valid so that the program can allow parking or not allow parking in Ash Street, Beech Street, Cedar Street, and Date Street. The program would only generate an error if any of the names of the streets, minutes, hours, or days are invalid because the hour would be less than 0 or more than 23, while the minute would be less than 0 or more than 59 minutes. My program passed all the unit tests because of each parking rule implementing the described restrictions and expected rules for each corresponding street, depending on which day and hour during the week can allow access in each corresponding street for parking, or not allow parking during that time, and the program prints exactly what I expected.

* Lab 9

    This was my third most favorite lab because I liked all the parts in this lab, even though there were challenges involved in the process of coding. In part 1, I wrote a program that used the const variable before std::vector and std::string to have the program clarify the initialization of the variables dictionary, document, and misspelled with the output of ReadWords and MisspelledWords being read and printed to the user, with words that have spelling errors and words that have no spelling errors. Then I had to put a space after the equal sign of MisspelledWords to have the program read the dictionary in the document file of “words.txt.” If the document file is opened, then the program declares an empty vector from std::string word and words.push_back(word), along with opening a std::ifstream to reach each word, and uses push_back to add each word to the vector before the document file from the dictionary returns the words that have no spelling errors and words that have spelling errors for the user. In part 2, I wrote a program that uses file I/O to make the secret number hidden from the player when guessing a random secret number in a file, and declares a user output when the secret number is guessed correctly or incorrectly. The input file would be opened by reading the “secret.dat” file before declaring a variable to store the secret number that would not be revealed to the user until the end of the game, or unless the user guesses the secret number correctly. Next, the std::cout command would have the program use a user input to enter the user’s guess, and then use std::cin to read input into the guess variable for each random number from 1 through 10, and by using the std::stoi command in the if statement determines that if the secret number is guessed correctly, then the program would send an std::cout command to the user, prompting that the guess was correct and it matches the secret number, the game would end, otherwise, the else statement would be initiated if the guess was incorrect and it does not match the secret number, receiving the call for the program to send an std::cout command to the user, prompting that the guess was incorrect and the program would give the user the correct secret number at the end of the game. The program would have an error if the secret number is not provided, the secret number is a negative value that is not 1 through 10, by using the if statement with the use of std::cout for the user input and output. Once I figured it out, the game was like a challenge for the user to guess the secret number correctly, with a number between 1 through 10 to win the game.
